
Pottermore
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Find sources: "Pottermore" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Pottermore
Pottermore.png
Type of business	Private
Type of site
Harry Potter website
Available in	English, German, Spanish, French, Italian, Japanese and Only E-Books and Digital Audio books in Portuguese.
Area served	Worldwide
Owner	J. K. Rowling
Founder(s)	J. K. Rowling
Key people	
J. K. Rowling
Neil Blair
URL	wizardingworld.com (Current)
pottermore.com (till October 2019)
Alexa rank	10,380
Registration	Not required to read content. Required to be sorted.
Launched	31 July 2011 (beta)
14 April 2012 (full launch)
22 September 2015 (redesign)
2 October 2019 (WizardingWorld.com)
Pottermore Ltd. is the digital publishing, e-commerce, entertainment, and news company from J. K. Rowling and is a global digital publisher of Harry Potter and the Wizarding World. It offers news, features, and articles as well as new and previously unreleased writing by J. K. Rowling. The site features Rowling's thoughts, several pages of unpublished text, and a sales resource for e-book and audiobook versions of the seven Harry Potter novels.[2][3][4]

On 31 July 2011, registration for the limited beta release began. The limited release allowed the first million fans registered to complete The Magical Quill challenge. The original registration was intended to be October 2011, but was delayed until 14 April 2012.[3][5][6] Pottermore was originally launched in partnership with the company Sony, but in April 2014, it was announced that Pottermore had concluded its relationship with Sony and entered its next developmental phase both creatively and commercially. On 22 September 2015, Pottermore launched a newly designed site containing news, features, and articles plus previously unreleased writing by J.K. Rowling and removed some features including the interactive Moment illustrations, House Cup, and Sorting ceremony. A newly designed Sorting Ceremony was subsequently launched in January 2016 in which users could reclaim their old house or be re-sorted.

The Pottermore website closed in October 2019, replaced by WizardingWorld.com towards which a large part of the content has been migrated. Pottermore Publishing remains the publisher of the e-book editions of the Harry Potter books.


Contents
1	Development
2	Features of the pre-2015 Pottermore
2.1	Exploring the books
2.2	Brewing potions
2.3	Spells
2.4	House points and House Cup
2.5	Comments
2.6	Artwork
3	2015 redesign
4	History
4.1	Early registration: The Magical Quill Challenge
4.2	Philosopher's Stone: beta release
4.3	Public launch
4.4	Chamber of Secrets
4.5	Prisoner of Azkaban
4.6	Goblet of Fire
4.7	Order of the Phoenix
4.8	Half-Blood Prince
4.9	Deathly Hallows
4.10	Closure
5	See also
6	References
7	External links
Development
Pottermore was incorporated in April 2008 and was in a developmental stage for two years.[1][7] The Leaky Cauldron's webmaster, Melissa Anelli, has been involved with the project since October 2009.[8] On 15 June 2011, various Harry Potter fansites began releasing coordinates that led to letters on SecretStreetView.com. This website, created by Rowling, used Google Maps to reveal hidden letters that spelled out the title of her secret announcement.[9] The first web page to announce the project appeared in June 2011.[10] The webpage linked to a YouTube channel that featured a countdown.[11][12] Pixelated owls gathered on multiple Harry Potter websites that linked to this countdown page.[9] Rowling also revealed some details about the new site in a YouTube video on 23 June 2011.[3][12]

Features of the pre-2015 Pottermore
Exploring the books
Pottermore visitors could participate in interactive reading. They would create an account and be given a unique username. They began with Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone[13] and go through the chapters, following Harry and his friends through several Hogwarts journeys. They could collect things like potion ingredients, books, Chocolate Frog cards, galleons, candy, and more along the way. These various finds would earn users points for their house, after they are sorted by the Sorting Hat. The Sorting Hat would place them in one of the four different houses at Hogwarts. The user was given a special quiz to determine in which house they belong. The four different houses in the Harry Potter universe are Hufflepuff, Gryffindor, Slytherin, and Ravenclaw. Users could visit Diagon Alley, where they could purchase different wizarding supplies for school. They could learn spells, duel with other users, and brew several different potions. Students from different Houses could compete with each other for the House Cup by earning House points through dueling, potion making and collecting objects for the first time.[13][14]

Brewing potions
Pottermore users could make their own potions by using three different (on-screen) cauldrons that were "made" of either pewter, brass, or copper. Each cauldron could make potions at different speeds. Pewter was the slowest cauldron and copper was the fastest cauldron. Pewter cauldrons would cost fifteen galleons, brass cauldrons 21 galleons, and copper cauldrons 25 galleons. Users could make nine different potions with ingredients that could be bought in Diagon Alley, or found while exploring the chapters. If completed successfully, each potion earns them House points. However, a potion could fail if the wrong amount of an ingredient was added. It could also ruin the cauldrons. This could happen if a user left it to brew for too long, did not keep the temperature within the correct range, stirred the potion the wrong way, or crushed ingredients too finely (or not finely enough). When this happened, the player might have up to five house points deducted.

There were three lists of potions: Magical Drafts and Potions, Moste Potente Potions, and Book of Potions. Between these lists a combined total of 15 potions was available.

Spells
Users could practice spells and later use them against other members of Pottermore in the wizard's duels. There were four spellbooks and they were The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1), The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 2), and The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection, Curses and Counter-Curses Each spell has a different effect on the victim.

There are 33 spells that are available to users.

House points and House Cup
Members of Pottermore win and lose House points as they duel, brew potions, and explore the books. These points were then added and subtracted from that member's House (Slytherin, Ravenclaw, Gryffindor, or Hufflepuff) point total. The members of each House work together to gain more points than any of the other Houses. Every so often, a House Cup was awarded to the House with the most points, after which the points were reset. The first House Cup was awarded on 5 July 2012 to Slytherin, who also received early access to the first four chapters of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. The second House Cup was awarded to Gryffindor on 21 November 2012, whose members received screen-savers and desktop backgrounds for electronic devices. The third House Cup was awarded once again to Slytherin on 25 April 2013. As a reward, Slytherins gained early access to a Montrose Magpies badge. The fourth House Cup was awarded to Hufflepuff on 12 September 2013. As a reward, all members of the Hufflepuff house gained early access to Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. The fifth was awarded to Ravenclaw on 30 March 2014. The reward was announced on 4 April 2014, as being members of Ravenclaw house, users will enjoy early access to the final installment of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, as well as commemorative desktop wallpapers. On 26 September 2014, Ravenclaw retained their House Cup with Gryffindor being a close second. The House Cup was next awarded on 22 May 2015, and was won by Slytherin. The final House cup was awarded on 9 September 2015 and won by Hufflepuff house.

House Cup	Date	Winning House	Reward
1	5 July 2012	Slytherin	Early access to the first four chapters of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
2	21 November 2012	Gryffindor	Screen savers and desktop backgrounds.
3	25 April 2013	Slytherin	Early access to Montrose Magpies badge.
4	12 September 2013	Hufflepuff	Early access to Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.
5	30 March 2014	Ravenclaw	Early access to the final chapters of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and desktop backgrounds.
6	26 September 2014	Ravenclaw	Background image of the Ravenclaw's crest made from the usernames of the top 5,000 Ravenclaw students who helped their house to victory for their electronic devices.
7	22 May 2015	Slytherin	A list of 'Famous Slytherins through the Ages'
8	9 September 2015	Hufflepuff	A list of 'Famous Hufflepuffs through the Ages'
Comments
On 13 April 2015, Pottermore announced a deactivation of their comment boards in various sections of the site.

Artwork
A UK art studio, Atomhawk Design, created drawings of key scenes from the books in two and three-dimensional styles.

2015 redesign
On 22 September 2015, Pottermore launched a newly designed site containing news, feature and article plus previously unreleased writing by J.K. Rowling and removed some of its most prominent features including the interactive Moment illustrations, House Cup, and Sorting Ceremony. A newly designed Sorting Ceremony was subsequently launched on 28 January 2016 in which users could reclaim their old house or be re-sorted.

Pottermore continues to add new features to the site with a focus on expanding the wizarding world via interactive features and new J.K. Rowling writing. Since the site's relaunch Pottermore has revealed the origins of the Potter family, locations and information regarding wizarding schools around the world and 'History of Magic in North America'. The representation of Native American beliefs, however, remains controversial and was not well received by scholars and Native Americans' Rights activists.[15]

History
Early registration: The Magical Quill Challenge
When the website was launched on 31 July 2011, an overwhelming number of people tried to access it. Those who could get into Pottermore were informed of The Magical Quill Challenge. Users that completed the challenge could compete for the early registration for the site. The challenge spanned across seven days, with each day corresponding to a certain book in the series. Each day had a new clue, which had to be solved by the user in order to enable his or her right to register before October. The website picked a user's name randomly. Only a certain number of people each day were allowed to use the Magic Quill clue for registration, but this quickly added up to a total of one million users at the end of the challenge (6 August 2011).[16] While many accounts were created by fans during the early registration phase, many other users created multiple accounts and sold them for high prices on eBay. This was done despite the warning given by the Pottermore blog, and the fact that users were assured that the website would remain a free site. Some of these accounts were created by cyber criminals hoping to target as many Harry Potter fans as possible.[17][18][19] These criminals posted promises of early previews and access to the site, which led people to unintentionally buy a malicious software and allowed hackers to gain access to their accounts.[19][20] Clues on the first three days were more difficult than the clues on days four through seven.[21] For North Americans, the final clue was released on 5 August 2011 instead of 6 August 2011. The following table is an overview of the Magical Quill Challenge.[22]

Date	Time	Clue	Answer	Page	References
31 July	9:00 a.m. BST	"How many owls are on the Eeylops Owl Emporium sign? Multiply by 49."	245	Sony's US homepage	[23]
1 August	10:00 a.m. BST	"What is the number of the chapter in which Professor McGonagall cancels the Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Hufflepuff? Multiply this number by 42."	588	Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2, site hidden in the photos of the film.	
2 August	11:00 a.m. BST	"In the Gryffindor versus Slytherin Quidditch match in Harry's third year, how many points ahead is Gryffindor before Harry catches the golden snitch? Multiply this number by 35."	2100	Online article on The Guardian's website	[23][24]
3 August	3:30 p.m. BST	"How many students take part in the Triwizard Tournament during Harry's fourth year? Multiply this number by 28."	112	Sony Harry Potter page, later skipped due to issues	
4 August	6:00 p.m. BST	"What is the house number of the headquarters for The Order of the Phoenix in Grimmauld Place? Multiply this number by 21."	252	Scholastic's Harry Potter page in an ad space at the top of the page.	
5 August	2:00 p.m. BST	"How many chapters are there in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince? Multiply this number by 14."	420	The Wizarding World of Harry Potter's website	
6 August	1:00 a.m. BST	"How many Deathly Hallows are there? Multiply this number by 7."	21	Warner Brothers' Parseltongue Translator	
Philosopher's Stone: beta release
"I think Pottermore has the potential to be a lasting focal point for the "Harry Potter" brand. I think the fact that it incorporates new content, a social networking element, and is also the only place people will be able to buy the eBooks will prove to be quite a potent combination..."
—Charlotte Williams, The Bookseller[25]
On 10 August 2011, Pottermore sent a congratulatory email to registered users that confirmed early entry. This signified that the beta period began once the sign-in button reappeared on the website.[26] On 15 August 2011, the sign-in button reappeared, welcome emails were sent out, and the beta period began. A very small number of users were invited to begin their use of Pottermore on the first day. More users were invited until 27 September, that marked when the final invitation emails were sent.[27] Early users also said that even though the site did not bring back the same feelings of excitement from when the books were released, it did add an extra layer to the reading experience.[28]

Public launch
Pottermore was originally scheduled to become publicly available at the end of October 2011, but the beta period was extended. The Pottermore Shop (which sells Harry Potter eBooks and digital audio books) became available on 27 March 2012.[29] On 8 March 2012, it was reported that Pottermore would open to the public in early April 2012. The website officially opened on 14 April 2012, but at that time, the interactive experience was only available for Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.

Chamber of Secrets
On 15 July 2012, the first four chapters of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets were released to only Slytherin House, as their reward for winning the first house cup; it was released to the other Houses on 16 July. On 18 September, chapters five through eleven were released. Accompanying these releases were many new features. These features included badges, the ability for users to see their own all-time House points as well as the number earned since the last House Cup, second-year schoolbooks, more galleons to spend in Diagon Alley, and a status field for user profiles. The final installment of chapters, including chapters twelve through eighteen, were launched on 31 October 2012.

Prisoner of Azkaban
The first seven chapters of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban were released on 20 December 2012. Chapters eight through fifteen were later released on 10 April 2013. Chapters sixteen through twenty-two were released 31 July 2013, along with a new layout of Pottermore that includes a new gateway, a separate way of going through Harry's story and the user's, and three more moments added to Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.

Goblet of Fire
The first 11 chapters of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire were released on the site in October 2013. In these chapters, users could do things from the book, such as see The Dark Mark, watch the Quidditch World Cup, and find a Chudley Cannons badge in Ron Weasley's room. Chapters 12 through 20 were released on 16 January 2014. The final chapters, Chapter 21 through 37, were released to Ravenclaw members on 30 July 2014, and then to the public on 31 July 2014. Chapters 2, 22, 29, and 33 of Goblet of Fire have no interactive moments to explore, however, their descriptions are still available to read when each chapter is clicked.

Between April to July 2014, while Chapters 21 through 37 of Goblet of Fire were in development, the site periodically released "articles" from the franchise's fictional newspaper The Daily Prophet, pertaining to 2014 Quidditch World Cup. Written in-universe by the character Ginny Weasley (by then married to Harry), the articles detailed the various matches of the sporting event between sixteen countries such as Bulgaria, the United States, Japan, and Brazil. A further article, written in-universe by reporter Rita Skeeter (released on 8 July) had detailed various, never-before-seen tidbits on the lives of the story's protagonists.

Order of the Phoenix
On 17 October 2014, the Pottermore Insider introduced a Trick or Treat event that posted a new Trick or Treat daily. On even days, there would be a Trick and on odd days, a Treat. Treats consisted of a piece of artwork or sneak peek to be released in the new update on Halloween. Tricks consisted of a puzzle or game that needed to be solved to provide hints of things included in the new update. On 31 October, Pottermore released the Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix chapters to the online experience. In the fifth book, users could read new content from J.K. Rowling, such as Professor Umbridge's backstory, the mystery of Thestrals, and even the history of the Ministry of Magic.

Half-Blood Prince
On 5 December 2014, Pottermore gave users early access to Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince only if they answered the riddles correctly.[30] There, the visitor could find more information about Inferi, Florean Fortescue's forgotten plot to help Harry, the Order of Merlin, Draco Malfoy's secrets, and more.

Deathly Hallows
On 23 June 2015, Pottermore gave users access to Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, the final book.[31]

Closure
A new website, WizardingWorld.com, opened in 2019. It eventually took over Pottermore, hosting much of the news and original writing content previously available on the Pottermore website. Pottermore now redirects to the Wizarding World website.

See also
WizardingWorld.com
Harry Potter fandom
References
 "Pottermore Limited - WebCHeck". United Kingdom: Companies House. Retrieved 17 August 2011.
 "Pottermore Shop". Pottermore. Retrieved 3 July 2012.
 Cooke, Sonia Van Gilder (19 June 2011). "'Pottermore' Secrets Revealed: J.K. Rowling's New Site is E-Book Meets Interactive World". Time. Retrieved 2 August 2011.
 Solon, Olivia (23 June 2011). "J.K. Rowling's Pottermore reveal: Harry Potter e-books and more". Wired UK. Ars Technica. Retrieved 24 June 2011.
 "Pottermore Press Release" (PDF). Pottermore.com. 23 June 2011. Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 November 2011. Retrieved 23 June 2011.
 Pottermore Insider (28 October 2011). "Making Pottermore even better". Archived from the original on 29 October 2011. Retrieved 28 October 2011.
 Flood, Alison; Brown, Mark (23 June 2011). "Harry Potter next chapter? Wizard website tells and sells all". The Guardian. UK. Retrieved 3 August 2011.
 @melissaanelli (23 June 2011). "All right, I can say this now. I have been working with @pottermore since Oct 2009. And it has been absolutely brilliant" (Tweet) – via Twitter.
 Witt, Emily (2 August 2011). "Harry Potter and the Interactive Digital Environment". The New York Observer. Retrieved 4 August 2011.
 DeMara, Bruce (16 June 2011). "More 'Harry': Pottermore website raises fan hopes". Toronto Star. Retrieved 23 June 2011.
 "New Rowling mystery project spellbinds". Sydney Morning Herald. 17 June 2011. Retrieved 23 June 2011.
 "J.K. Rowling has mysterious new Potter website". The Sacramento Bee. 16 June 2011. Archived from the original on 20 June 2011. Retrieved 23 June 2011.
 Flood, Alison (23 June 2011). "Pottermore website launched by JK Rowling as 'give-back' to fans". The Guardian. London. Retrieved 28 June 2011.
 "New Pottermore Website Will Offer Interactive Reading Experience and Harry Potter Ebooks". 23 June 2011. Retrieved 28 June 2011.
 Lee, Paula Young (1 July 2016). "Pottermore problems: Scholars and writers call foul on J.K. Rowling's North American magic".
 "Pottermore Help – The Magical Quill and site access". Archived from the original on 30 July 2011. Retrieved 3 August 2011.
 Yin, Sara (5 August 2011). "Harry Potter Fan? You're a Prime Target for Cybercriminals". PC Magazine. Retrieved 17 August 2011.
 "Harry Potter hit by hi-tech conmen". BBC News. 5 August 2011.
 "Harry Potter website Pottermore users 'targeted by cybercriminals'". The Daily Telegraph. UK. 5 August 2011. Retrieved 5 August 2011.
 "Harry Potter website Pottermore hit by scammers". Metro. 5 August 2011. Retrieved 17 August 2011.
 Memmott, Carol (1 August 2011). "Pottermore's Magical Quill Challenge underway". USA Today. Retrieved 8 August 2011.
 "Full List of Pottermore Magical Quill Challenge Questions/Answers".
 "Pottermore: your experiences". The Guardian. UK. 16 August 2011. Retrieved 17 August 2011.
 Kirch, Claire (4 August 2011). "Harry Potter and the Muggle Quest for More". Publisher Weekly. Retrieved 9 August 2011. [...] We embarked upon a noble quest worthy of Harry Potter himself: entering Pottermore sooner, rather than later.
 Flood, Alison (15 August 2011). "Pottermore: A first look inside Harry Potter's digital world". The Guardian. UK. Retrieved 15 August 2011.
 @pottermore (11 August 2011). "Don't worry if you haven't received your email confirming early entry. There's a million to send out so it may take a little time to arrive" (Tweet) – via Twitter.
 Young, Bryan (15 August 2011). "A Look Inside Pottermore: First Impressions". The Huffington Post. Retrieved 17 August 2011.
 Walker, Harriet (16 August 2011). "First Sight: Pottermore.com, the internet". The Independent. London. Retrieved 17 August 2011. Judging by its first showing, Pottermore will not change the world.
 JEFFREY A. TRACHTENBERG (27 March 2012). "Finally, E-Books for Potter". The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Retrieved 2 August 2012.
 "J.K. Rowling Just Brewed Up Another Riddle And New Writings For Harry Potter Fans". Cinema Blend. Retrieved 11 October 2018.
 Alison (23 June 2015). "Pottermore Releases "Deathly Hallows"!". MuggleNet. Retrieved 11 August 2016.
External links
Pottermore Publishing
J.K. Rowling's announcement of Pottermore from 23 June 2011 on YouTube
vte
Harry Potter by J. K. Rowling
Wizarding World
Story books	
Main novels	
The Philosopher's StoneThe Chamber of SecretsThe Prisoner of AzkabanThe Goblet of FireThe Order of the PhoenixThe Half-Blood PrinceThe Deathly Hallows
Spin-offs	
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find ThemQuidditch Through the AgesThe Tales of Beedle the BardThe Cursed Child
Short stories	
PrequelHogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable GuideShort Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky PoltergeistsShort Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies
Feature films	
Harry Potter
(music)	
The Philosopher's Stone soundtrackThe Chamber of Secrets soundtrackThe Prisoner of Azkaban soundtrackThe Goblet of Fire soundtrackThe Order of the Phoenix soundtrackThe Half-Blood Prince soundtrackThe Deathly Hallows – Part 1 productionsoundtrackThe Deathly Hallows – Part 2 productionsoundtrack
Fantastic Beasts	
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them soundtrackThe Crimes of Grindelwald soundtrack
Cast and characters	
Characters supportingCast membersHarry PotterRon WeasleyHermione GrangerLord VoldemortAlbus DumbledoreSeverus SnapeRubeus HagridDraco MalfoyGinny WeasleyHogwarts staffOrder of the PhoenixDumbledore's ArmyDeath Eaters
Fictional universe	
Education BeauxbatonsHogwartsMagic Magical creaturesMagical objectsMinistry of MagicMugglePlacesPoliticsPotionsQuidditch
Related works	
PottermorePollomuhku ja Posityyhtynen
Inspired media	
Video games	
Lego Creator: Harry PotterThe Philosopher's StoneThe Chamber of SecretsCreator: Harry Potter and the Chamber of SecretsQuidditch World CupThe Prisoner of AzkabanThe Goblet of FireThe Order of the PhoenixThe Half-Blood PrinceLego Harry Potter: Years 1–4The Deathly Hallows – Part 1The Deathly Hallows – Part 2Lego Harry Potter: Years 5–7Book of SpellsBook of PotionsLego DimensionsHogwarts MysteryWizards Unite
Attractions	
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter OrlandoJapanHollywoodDragon ChallengeFlight of the HippogriffHagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike AdventureHarry Potter and the Escape from GringottsHarry Potter and the Forbidden JourneyHogwarts ExpressHarry Potter Movie Magic Experience
Exhibitions	
Harry Potter: The ExhibitionHarry Potter: A History of MagicWarner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter
Other	
Lego Harry PotterTrading Card Game
Fandom	
Harry Potter AllianceThe Leaky CauldronMuggleNetLeakyConWizard rockWrockstockThe Methods of RationalityMy ImmortalSeverus Snape and the MaraudersVoldemort: Origins of the HeirHermione Granger and the Quarter Life Crisis
Related	
Influences and analoguesLegal disputesParodiesReligious debatesTranslationA Very Potter MusicalHarry Potter and the Sacred TextThe Harry Potter LexiconThe Magical Worlds of Harry PotterPotter Puppet PalsPortkey GamesList of organisms named after the Harry Potter series
Wikipedia book BookCategory Category
Categories: Companies based in the City of WestminsterHarry Potter websitesInternet properties established in 2011
Navigation menu
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
ArticleTalk
ReadEditView historySearch
Search Wikipedia
Main page
Contents
Current events
Random article
About Wikipedia
Contact us
Donate
Contribute
Help
Community portal
Recent changes
Upload file
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Wikidata item
Cite this page

Languages
বাংলা
Deutsch
Español
Français
한국어
Bahasa Indonesia
日本語
Русский
中文
12 more
Edit links
Print/export
Download as PDF
Printable version
This page was last edited on 22 June 2020, at 18:25 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaDevelopersStatisticsCookie statementMobile viewWikimedia FoundationPowered by MediaWiki



Page semi-protected
Dragon
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article is about the legendary creature. For other uses, see Dragon (disambiguation).
Not to be confused with Draconian (disambiguation).

Illustration of a winged, fire-breathing dragon by Friedrich Justin Bertuch from 1806

Carved imperial Chinese dragons at Nine-Dragon Wall, Beihai Park, Beijing

Dragons in the bow of a Russian Viking ship. Ystad 2019.
A dragon is a large, serpentine legendary creature that appears in the folklore of many cultures around the world. Beliefs about dragons vary considerably by region, but dragons in western cultures since the High Middle Ages have often been depicted as winged, horned, four-legged, and capable of breathing fire. Dragons in eastern cultures are usually depicted as wingless, four-legged, serpentine creatures with above-average intelligence.

The earliest attested reports of draconic creatures resemble giant snakes. Draconic creatures are first described in the mythologies of the ancient Near East and appear in ancient Mesopotamian art and literature. Stories about storm-gods slaying giant serpents occur throughout nearly all Indo-European and Near Eastern mythologies. Famous prototypical draconic creatures include the mušḫuššu of ancient Mesopotamia; Apep in Egyptian mythology; Vṛtra in the Rigveda; the Leviathan in the Hebrew Bible; Grand'Goule in the Poitou region in France, Python, Ladon, Wyvern, and the Lernaean Hydra in Greek mythology; Jörmungandr, Níðhöggr, and Fafnir in Norse mythology; and the dragon from Beowulf.

The popular western image of a dragon is based on a conflation of earlier dragons from different traditions, and of inaccurate scribal drawings of snakes. In western cultures, dragons are portrayed as monsters to be tamed or overcome, usually by saints or culture heroes, as in the popular legend of Saint George and the Dragon. They are often said to have ravenous appetites and to live in caves, where they hoard treasure. These dragons appear frequently in western fantasy literature, including The Hobbit by J. R. R. Tolkien, the Harry Potter series by J. K. Rowling, and A Song of Ice and Fire by George R. R. Martin.

The word "dragon" has also come to be applied to the Chinese lung (traditional 龍, simplified 龙, Pinyin long), which are associated with good fortune and are thought to have power over rain. Dragons and their associations with rain are the source of the Chinese customs of dragon dancing and dragon boat racing. Many East Asian deities and demigods have dragons as their personal mounts or companions. Dragons were also identified with the Emperor of China, who, during later Chinese imperial history, was the only one permitted to have dragons on his house, clothing, or personal articles.

Commonalities between dragons' traits are often a hybridization of avian, feline, and reptilian features, and may include: snakelike features, reptilian scaly skin, four legs with three or four toes on each, spinal nodes running down the back, a tail, and a serrated jaw with rows of teeth. Several modern scholars believe huge extinct or migrating crocodiles bear the closest resemblance, especially when encountered in forested or swampy areas, and are most likely the template of modern dragon imagery.[1][2] This also fits with the ancient words 'Draco' and 'Drakon', meaning 'large serpent' or 'sea serpent.'


Contents
1	Etymology
2	Sources of inspiration for dragon myths
3	Africa
3.1	Egypt
4	Asia
4.1	South Asia
4.2	East Asia
4.3	West Asia
5	Europe
5.1	Proto-Indo-European
5.2	Ancient Greece and Rome
5.3	Post-classical Germanic mythology
5.4	Post-classical Western Europe
5.5	Post-classical Eastern Europe
6	Modern depictions
7	See also
8	Notes
9	References
9.1	Bibliography
10	External links
Etymology

An early appearance of the Old English word dracan in Beowulf[3]
The word dragon entered the English language in the early 13th century from Old French dragon, which in turn comes from Latin: draconem (nominative draco) meaning "huge serpent, dragon", from Ancient Greek δράκων, drákōn (genitive δράκοντος, drákontos) "serpent, giant seafish".[4][5] The Greek and Latin term referred to any great serpent, not necessarily mythological.[6] The Greek word δράκων is most likely derived from the Greek verb δέρκομαι (dérkomai) meaning "I see", the aorist form of which is ἔδρακον (édrakon).[5]

Sources of inspiration for dragon myths

Several bones purported to belong to the Wawel Dragon hang outside of Wawel Cathedral, but actually belong to a Pleistocene mammal.
Draconic creatures appear in virtually all cultures around the globe.[7] Nonetheless, scholars dispute where the idea of a dragon originates from[8] and a wide variety of hypotheses have been proposed.

[8] In his book An Instinct for Dragons (2000), anthropologist David E. Jones suggests a hypothesis that humans, just like monkeys, have inherited instinctive reactions to snakes, large cats, and birds of prey.[9] He cites a study which found that approximately 39 people in a hundred are afraid of snakes[10] and notes that fear of snakes is especially prominent in children, even in areas where snakes are rare.[10] The earliest attested dragons all resemble snakes or bear snakelike attributes.[11] Jones therefore concludes that the reason why dragons appear in nearly all cultures is because of humans' innate fear of snakes and other animals that were major predators of humans' primate ancestors.[12] Dragons are usually said to reside in "dank caves, deep pools, wild mountain reaches, sea bottoms, haunted forests", all places which would have been fraught with danger for early human ancestors.[13]

In her book The First Fossil Hunters: Dinosaurs, Mammoths, and Myth in Greek and Roman Times (2000), Adrienne Mayor argues that some stories of dragons may have been inspired by ancient discoveries of fossils belonging to dinosaurs and other prehistoric animals.[14] She argues that the dragon lore of northern India may have been inspired by "observations of oversized, extraordinary bones in the fossilbeds of the Siwalik Hills below the Himalayas"[15] and that ancient Greek artistic depictions of the Monster of Troy may have been influenced by fossils of Samotherium, an extinct species of giraffe whose fossils are common in the Mediterranean region.[15] In China, a region where fossils of large prehistoric animals are common, these remains are frequently identified as "dragon bones"[16] and are commonly used in Chinese traditional medicine.[16] Mayor, however, is careful to point out that not all stories of dragons and giants are inspired by fossils[16] and notes that Scandinavia has many stories of dragons and sea monsters, but has long "been considered barren of large fossils."[16] In one of her later books, she states that "Many dragon images around the world were based on folk knowledge or exaggerations of living reptiles, such as Komodo dragons, Gila monsters, iguanas, alligators, or, in California, alligator lizards."[17]

Robert Blust in The Origin Of Dragons (2000) argues that, like many other creations of traditional cultures, dragons are largely explicable as products of a convergence of rational pre-scientific speculation about the world of real events. In this case, the event is the natural mechanism governing rainfall and drought, with particular attention paid to the phenomenon of the rainbow.[18]

Africa
Egypt

Illustration from an ancient Egyptian papyrus manuscript showing the god Set spearing the serpent Apep as he attacks the sun boat of Ra
In Egyptian mythology, Apep is a giant serpent who resides in the Duat, the Egyptian Underworld.[19][20] The Bremner-Rhind papyrus, written in around 310 BC, preserves an account of a much older Egyptian tradition that the setting of the sun is caused by Ra descending to the Duat to battle Apep.[19][20] In some accounts, Apep is as long as the height of eight men with a head made of flint.[20] Thunderstorms and earthquakes were thought to be caused by Apep's roar[21] and solar eclipses were thought to be the result of Apep attacking Ra during the daytime.[21] In some myths, Apep is slain by the god Set.[22] Nehebkau is another giant serpent who guards the Duat and aided Ra in his battle against Apep.[21] Nehebkau was so massive in some stories that the entire earth was believed to rest atop his coils.[21] Denwen is a giant serpent mentioned in the Pyramid Texts whose body was made of fire and who ignited a conflagration that nearly destroyed all the gods of the Egyptian pantheon.[23] He was ultimately defeated by the Pharaoh, a victory which affirmed the Pharaoh's divine right to rule.[24]

The ouroboros was a well-known Egyptian symbol of a serpent swallowing its own tail.[25] The precursor to the ouroboros was the "Many-Faced",[25] a serpent with five heads, who, according to the Amduat, the oldest surviving Book of the Afterlife, was said to coil around the corpse of the sun god Ra protectively.[25] The earliest surviving depiction of a "true" ouroboros comes from the gilded shrines in the tomb of Tutankhamun.[25] In the early centuries AD, the ouroboros was adopted as a symbol by Gnostic Christians[26] and chapter 136 of the Pistis Sophia, an early Gnostic text, describes "a great dragon whose tail is in its mouth".[26] In medieval alchemy, the ouroboros became a typical western dragon with wings, legs, and a tail.[25] A famous image of the dragon gnawing on its tail from the eleventh-century Codex Marcianus was copied in numerous works on alchemy.[25]

Asia

15th-century Persian miniature of Rostam slaying a dragon
South Asia

Head of the dragon-god Pakhangba depicted on a musical instrument from Manipur, India
In the Rigveda, the oldest of the four Vedas, Indra, the Vedic god of storms, battles Vṛtra, a giant serpent who represents drought.[27] Indra kills Vṛtra using his vajra (thunderbolt) and clears the path for rain,[28][29] which is described in the form of cattle: "You won the cows, hero, you won the Soma,/You freed the seven streams to flow" (Rigveda 1.32.12).[30] In another Rigvedic legend, the three-headed serpent Viśvarūpa, the son of Tvaṣṭṛ, guards a wealth of cows and horses.[31] Indra delivers Viśvarūpa to a god named Trita Āptya,[31] who fights and kills him and sets his cattle free.[31] Indra cuts off Viśvarūpa's heads and drives the cattle home for Trita.[31] This same story is alluded to in the Younger Avesta,[31] in which the hero Thraētaona, the son of Āthbya, slays the three-headed dragon Aži Dahāka and takes his two beautiful wives as spoils.[31] Thraētaona's name (meaning "third grandson of the waters") indicates that Aži Dahāka, like Vṛtra, was seen as a blocker of waters and cause of drought.[31]

The Druk (Dzongkha: འབྲུག་), also known as 'Thunder Dragon', is one of the National symbols of Bhutan. In the Dzongkha language, Bhutan is known as Druk Yul "Land of Druk", and Bhutanese leaders are called Druk Gyalpo, "Thunder Dragon Kings". The druk was adopted as an emblem by the Drukpa Lineage, which originated in Tibet and later spread to Bhutan.[32]

East Asia

It has been suggested that this section be split into a new article titled East Asian dragon. (Discuss) (May 2020)
See also: Vietnamese dragon
Chinese dragon

Illustration of the dragon Zhulong from a seventeenth-century edition of the Shanhaijing
Main article: Chinese dragon
Archaeologist Zhōu Chong-Fa believes that the Chinese word for dragon is an onomatopoeia of the sound of thunder[33] or lùhng in Cantonese.[34]

The Chinese dragon (simplified Chinese: 龙; traditional Chinese: 龍; pinyin: lóng) is the highest-ranking creature in the Chinese animal hierarchy. Its origins are vague, but its "ancestors can be found on Neolithic pottery as well as Bronze Age ritual vessels."[35] A number of popular stories deal with the rearing of dragons.[36] The Zuo zhuan, which was probably written during the Warring States period, describes a man named Dongfu, a descendant of Yangshu'an, who loved dragons[36] and, because he could understand a dragon's will, he was able to tame them and raise them well.[36] He served Emperor Shun, who gave him the family name Huanlong, meaning "Dragon-Raiser".[36] In another story, Kongjia, the fourteenth emperor of the Xia dynasty, was given a male and a female dragon as a reward for his obedience to the god of heaven,[36] but could not train them, so he hired a dragon-trainer named Liulei, who had learned how to train dragons from Huanlong.[36] One day, the female dragon died unexpectedly, so Liulei secretly chopped her up, cooked her meat, and served it to the king,[36] who loved it so much that he demanded Liulei to serve him the same meal again.[36] Since Liulei had no means of procuring more dragon meat, he fled the palace.[36]

One of the most famous dragon stories is about the Lord Ye Gao, who loved dragons obsessively, even though he had never seen one.[37] He decorated his whole house with dragon motifs[37] and, seeing this display of admiration, a real dragon came and visited Ye Gao,[37] but the lord was so terrified at the sight of the creature that he ran away.[37] In Chinese legend, the culture hero Fu Hsi is said to have been crossing the Lo River, when he saw the lung ma, a Chinese horse-dragon with seven dots on its face, six on its back, eight on its left flank, and nine on its right flank.[38] He was so moved by this apparition that, when he arrived home, he drew a picture of it, including the dots.[38] He later used these dots as letters and invented Chinese writing, which he used to write his book I Ching.[38] In another Chinese legend, the physician Ma Shih Huang is said to have healed a sick dragon.[39] Another legend reports that a man once came to the healer Lo Chên-jen, telling him that he was a dragon and that he needed to be healed.[39] After Lo Chên-jen healed the man, a dragon appeared to him and carried him to heaven.[39]

In the Shanhaijing, a classic mythography probably compiled mostly during the Han dynasty, various deities and demigods are associated with dragons.[40] One of the most famous Chinese dragons is Ying Long ("Responding Dragon"), who helped the Huangdi, the Yellow Emperor, defeat the tyrant Chiyou.[41] The dragon Zhulong ("Torch Dragon") is a god "who composed the universe with his body."[41] In the Shanhaijing, many mythic heroes are said to have been conceived after their mothers copulated with divine dragons, including Huangdi, Shennong, Emperor Yao, and Emperor Shun.[41] The god Zhurong and the emperor Qi are both described as being carried by two dragons,[42] as are Huangdi, Zhuanxu, Yuqiang, and Roshou in various other texts.[36] According to the Huainanzi, an evil black dragon once caused a destructive deluge,[36] which was ended by the mother goddess Nüwa by slaying the dragon.[36]


Casting for a Chinese belt-plaque showing the lung ma, or "dragon horse", dating to the first or second century AD
A large number of ethnic myths about dragons are told throughout China.[36] The Houhanshu, compiled in the fifth century BC by Fan Ye, reports a story belonging to the Ailaoyi people, which holds that a woman named Shayi who lived in the region around Mount Lao became pregnant with ten sons after being touched by a tree trunk floating in the water while fishing.[41] She gave birth to the sons and the tree trunk turned into a dragon, who asked to see his sons.[41] The woman showed them to him,[41] but all of them ran away except for the youngest, who the dragon licked on the back and named Jiu Long, meaning "Sitting Back".[41] The sons later elected him king and the descendants of the ten sons became the Ailaoyi people, who tattooed dragons on their backs in honor of their ancestor.[41] The Miao people of southwest China have a story that a divine dragon created the first humans by breathing on monkeys that came to play in his cave.[36] The Han people have many stories about Short-Tailed Old Li, a black dragon who was born to a poor family in Shandong.[37] When his mother saw him for the first time, she fainted[37] and, when his father came home from the field and saw him, he hit him with a spade and cut off part of his tail.[37] Li burst through the ceiling and flew away to the Black Dragon River in northeast China, where he became the god of that river.[43] On the anniversary of his mother's death on the Chinese lunar calendar, Old Li returns home, causing it to rain.[44] He is still worshipped as a rain god.[44]


Diagram illustrating the four great Dragon Kings of the Four Seas
In China, dragons are closely associated with rain[45] and drought is thought to be caused by a dragon's laziness.[46] Prayers invoking dragons to bring rain are common in Chinese texts.[45] The Luxuriant Dew of the Spring and Autumn Annals, attributed to the Han dynasty scholar Dong Zhongshu, prescribes making clay figurines of dragons during a time of drought and having young men and boys pace and dance among the figurines in order to encourage the dragons to bring rain.[45] Texts from the Qing dynasty advise hurling the bone of a tiger or dirty objects into the pool where the dragon lives;[46] since dragons cannot stand tigers or dirt, the dragon of the pool will cause heavy rain to drive the object out.[46] Rainmaking rituals invoking dragons are still very common in many Chinese villages, where each village has its own god said to bring rain and many of these gods are dragons.[46] Although stories of the Dragon Kings are among the most popular dragon stories in China today, these stories did not begin to emerge until the Eastern Han, when Buddhist stories of the serpent rain-god Nāga became popular.[46] Taoists began to invent their own dragon kings and eventually such stories developed in every major Chinese religion.[46] According to these stories, every body of water is ruled by a dragon king, each with a different power, rank, and ability,[46] so people began establishing temples across the countryside dedicated to these figures.[46]


Head of a dragon from a Chinese dragon dance performed in Helsinki in the year 2000.
Many traditional Chinese customs revolve around dragons.[47] During various holidays, including the Spring Festival and Lantern Festival, villagers will construct an approximately sixteen-foot-long dragon from grass, cloth, bamboo strips, and paper, which they will parade through the city as part of a dragon dance.[48] The original purpose of this ritual was to bring good weather and a strong harvest,[48] but now it is done mostly only for entertainment.[48] During the Duanwu festival, several villages, or even a whole province, will hold a dragon boat race, in which people race across a body of water in boats carved to look like dragons, while a large audience watches on the banks.[48] The custom is traditionally said to have originated after the poet Qu Yuan committed suicide by drowning himself in the Miluo River and people raced out in boats hoping to save him,[48] but most historians agree that the custom actually originated much earlier as a ritual to avert ill fortune.[48] Starting during the Han dynasty and continuing until the Qing dynasty, the Chinese emperor gradually became closely identified with dragons,[48] and emperors themselves claimed to be the incarnation of a divine dragon.[48] Eventually, dragons were only allowed to appear on clothing, houses, and articles of everyday use belonging to the emperor[48] and any commoner who possessed everyday items bearing the image of the dragon were ordered to be executed.[48] After the last Chinese emperor was overthrown in 1911, this situation changed and now many ordinary Chinese people identify themselves as descendants of dragons.[49]


Silk painting depicting a man riding a dragon, dated to 5th–3rd century BC.

 

Tang dynasty painting of a dragon boat race attributed to Li Zhaodao

 

Flag of the Qing dynasty from 1889 to 1912, showing a Chinese dragon

 

Dragon sculpture on top of Lungshan Temple, Taipei, Taiwan

 

Chinese dragon in Fengdu Ghost City, China

 

Members of the Chinese Youth Society of Melbourne performing for Chinese New Year, at Crown Casino, demonstrate a basic "corkscrew" routine

Korean dragon

The Blue Dragon mural depiction at the Goguryeo tombs.
Main article: Korean dragon
The Korean dragon is in many ways similar in appearance to other East Asian dragons such as the Chinese and Japanese dragons. It differs from the Chinese dragon in that it developed a longer beard. Very occasionally a dragon may be depicted as carrying an orb known as the Yeouiju (여의주), the Korean name for the mythical Cintamani, in its claws or its mouth. It was said that whoever could wield the Yeouiju was blessed with the abilities of omnipotence and creation at will, and that only four-toed dragons (who had thumbs with which to hold the orbs) were both wise and powerful enough to wield these orbs, as opposed to the lesser, three-toed dragons. As with China, the number nine is significant and auspicious in Korea, and dragons were said to have 81 (9×9) scales on their backs, representing yang essence. Dragons in Korean mythology are primarily benevolent beings related to water and agriculture, often considered bringers of rain and clouds. Hence, many Korean dragons are said to have resided in rivers, lakes, oceans, or even deep mountain ponds. And human journeys to undersea realms, and especially the undersea palace of the Dragon King (용왕), are common in Korean folklore.[50]

In Korean myths, some kings who founded kingdoms were described as descendants of dragons because the dragon was a symbol of the monarch. Lady Aryeong, who was the first queen of Silla is said to have been born from a cockatrice,[51] while the grandmother of Taejo of Goryeo, founder of Goryeo, was reportedly the daughter of the dragon king of the West Sea.[52] And King Munmu of Silla, who on his deathbed wished to become a dragon of the East Sea in order to protect the kingdom. Dragon patterns were used exclusively by the royal family. The royal robe was also called the dragon robe (용포). In Joseon Dynasty, the royal insignia, featuring embroidered dragons, were attached to the robe's shoulders, the chest, and back. The King wore five-taloned dragon insignia while the Crown Prince wore four-taloned dragon insignia.[53]

Korean folk mythology states that most dragons were originally Imugis (이무기), or lesser dragons, which were said to resemble gigantic serpents. There are a few different versions of Korean folklore that describe both what imugis are and how they aspire to become full-fledged dragons. Koreans thought that an Imugi could become a true dragon, yong or mireu, if it caught a Yeouiju which had fallen from heaven. Another explanation states they are hornless creatures resembling dragons who have been cursed and thus were unable to become dragons. By other accounts, an Imugi is a proto-dragon which must survive one thousand years in order to become a fully fledged dragon. In either case they are said to be large, benevolent, python-like creatures that live in water or caves, and their sighting is associated with good luck.[54]

Japanese dragon

Painting of a Japanese dragon by Hokusai (c. 1730 – 1849)
Main article: Japanese dragon
Japanese dragon myths amalgamate native legends with imported stories about dragons from China, Korea and India. Like these other Asian dragons, most Japanese ones are water deities associated with rainfall and bodies of water, and are typically depicted as large, wingless, serpentine creatures with clawed feet. Gould writes (1896:248),[55] the Japanese dragon is "invariably figured as possessing three claws". A story about the samurai Minamoto no Mitsunaka tells that, while he was hunting in his own territory of Settsu, he fell asleep under a tree and had a dream in which a beautiful woman appeared to him and begged him to save her land from a giant serpent which was defiling it.[39] Mitsunaka agreed to help and the maiden gave him a magnificent horse.[39] When he woke up, the horse was standing before him.[39] He rode it to the Sumiyoshi temple, where he prayed for eight days.[39] Then he confronted the serpent and slew it with an arrow.[39]

It was believed that dragons could be appeased or exorcised with metal.[39] Nitta Yoshisada is said to have hurled a famous sword into the sea at Sagami to appease the dragon-god of the sea[39] and Ki no Tsurayuki threw a metal mirror into the sea at Sumiyoshi for the same purpose.[39] Japanese Buddhism has also adapted dragons by subjecting them to Buddhist law;[39] the Japanese Buddhist deities Benten and Kwannon are often shown sitting or standing on the back of a dragon.[39] Several Japanese sennin ("immortals") have taken dragons as their mounts.[39] Bômô is said to have hurled his staff into a puddle of water, causing a dragon to come forth and let him ride it to heaven.[39] The rakan Handaka is said to have been able to conjure a dragon out of a bowl, which he is often shown playing with on kagamibuta.[39] The shachihoko is a creature with the head of a dragon, a bushy tail, fishlike scales, and sometimes fire emerging from its armpits.[39] The shifun has the head of a dragon, feathered wings, and the tail and claws of a bird.[39] A white dragon was believed to reside in a pool in Yamashiro Province[56] and, every fifty years, it would turn into a bird called the Ogonchô, which had a call like the "howling of a wild dog".[56] This event was believed to herald terrible famine.[56] In the Japanese village of Okumura, near Edo, during times of drought, the villagers would make a dragon effigy out of straw, magnolia leaves, and bamboo and parade it through the village to attract rainfall.[56]

West Asia
Ancient West Asia
Mesopotamia

The mušḫuššu is a serpentine, draconic monster from ancient Mesopotamian mythology with the body and neck of a snake, the forelegs of a lion, and the hind-legs of a bird.[57] Here it is shown as it appears in the Ishtar Gate from the city of Babylon.[57]
Ancient peoples across the Near East believed in creatures similar to what modern people call "dragons".[58] These ancient peoples were unaware of the existence of dinosaurs or similar creatures in the distant past.[58] References to dragons of both benevolent and malevolent characters occur throughout ancient Mesopotamian literature.[58] In Sumerian poetry, great kings are often compared to the ušumgal, a gigantic, serpentine monster.[58] A draconic creature with the foreparts of a lion and the hind-legs, tail, and wings of a bird appears in Mesopotamian artwork from the Akkadian Period (c. 2334 – 2154 BC) until the Neo-Babylonian Period (626 BC–539 BC).[59] The dragon is usually shown with its mouth open.[59] It may have been known as the (ūmu) nā’iru, which means "roaring weather beast",[59] and may have been associated with the god Ishkur (Hadad).[59] A slightly different lion-dragon with two horns and the tail of a scorpion appears in art from the Neo-Assyrian Period (911 BC–609 BC).[59] A relief probably commissioned by Sennacherib shows the gods Ashur, Sin, and Adad standing on its back.[59]

Another draconic creature with horns, the body and neck of a snake, the forelegs of a lion, and the hind-legs of a bird appears in Mesopotamian art from the Akkadian Period until the Hellenistic Period (323 BC–31 BC).[57] This creature, known in Akkadian as the mušḫuššu, meaning "furious serpent", was used as a symbol for particular deities and also as a general protective emblem.[57] It seems to have originally been the attendant of the Underworld god Ninazu,[57] but later became the attendant to the Hurrian storm-god Tishpak, as well as, later, Ninazu's son Ningishzida, the Babylonian national god Marduk, the scribal god Nabu, and the Assyrian national god Ashur.[57]

Scholars disagree regarding the appearance of Tiamat, the Babylonian goddess personifying primeval chaos slain by Marduk in the Babylonian creation epic Enûma Eliš.[60][61] She was traditionally regarded by scholars as having had the form of a giant serpent,[61] but several scholars have pointed out that this shape "cannot be imputed to Tiamat with certainty"[61] and she seems to have at least sometimes been regarded as anthropomorphic.[60][61] Nonetheless, in some texts, she seems to be described with horns, a tail, and a hide that no weapon can penetrate,[60] all features which suggest she was conceived as some form of dragoness.[60]

Levant

The Destruction of Leviathan (1865) by Gustave Doré
In the Ugaritic Baal Cycle, the sea-dragon Lōtanu is described as "the twisting serpent/ the powerful one with seven heads."[62] In KTU 1.5 I 2–3, Lōtanu is slain by the storm-god Baal,[62] but, in KTU 1.3 III 41–42, he is instead slain by the virgin warrior goddess Anat.[62] In the Book of Psalms, Psalm 74, Psalm 74:13–14, the sea-dragon Leviathan, whose name is a cognate of Lōtanu,[62][63][64] is slain by Yahweh, the national god of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah, as part of the creation of the world.[62][63] In Isaiah 27:1, Yahweh's destruction of Leviathan is foretold as part of Yahweh's impending overhaul of the universal order:[65][66]

Original Hebrew text (Isaiah 27:1)	English translation
א בַּיּוֹם הַהוּא יִפְקֹד יְהוָה בְּחַרְבּוֹ הַקָּשָׁה וְהַגְּדוֹלָה וְהַחֲזָקָה, עַל לִוְיָתָן נָחָשׁ
בָּרִחַ, וְעַל לִוְיָתָן, נָחָשׁ עֲקַלָּתוֹן; וְהָרַג אֶת-הַתַּנִּין, אֲשֶׁר בַּיָּם. {ס}

On that day Yahweh shall punish
with his sharp, great, and strong sword,
Leviathan the fleeing serpent, Leviathan the twisting serpent;
He will slay the dragon that is in the sea.[62]

Job 41:1–34 contains a detailed description of the Leviathan, who is described as being so powerful that only Yahweh can overcome it.[67] Job 41:19–21 states that the Leviathan exhales fire and smoke, making its identification as a mythical dragon clearly apparent.[67] In some parts of the Old Testament, the Leviathan is historicized as a symbol for the nations that stand against Yahweh.[63] Rahab, a synonym for "Leviathan", is used in several Biblical passages in reference to Egypt.[63] Isaiah 30:7 declares: "For Egypt's help is worthless and empty, therefore I have called her 'the silenced Rahab'."[63] Similarly, Psalm 87:3 reads: "I reckon Rahab and Babylon as those that know me..."[63] In Ezekiel 29:3–5 and 32:2–8, the pharaoh of Egypt is described as a "dragon" (tannîn).[63] In the story of Bel and the Dragon from the apocryphal additions to Daniel, the prophet Daniel sees a dragon being worshipped by the Babylonians.[68] Daniel makes "cakes of pitch, fat, and hair";[68] the dragon eats them and bursts open (Daniel 14:23–30).[68]

Post-classical West Asia
In Sufi literature, Rumi writes in his Masnavi (III: 976–1066; IV: 120) that the dragon symbolizes the sensual soul, greed and lust, that need to be mortified in a spiritual battle.[69][70]


Rustam kills the dragon, folio from Shahnameh of Shah Ismail II, attrib. Sadegi (Beg), Iran, Tabriz, c. 1576 AD, view 1 – Aga Khan Museum – Toronto, Canada
In Ferdowsi's Shahnameh, the Iranian hero Rostam must slay an 80-meter-long dragon (which renders itself invisible to human sight) with the aid of his legendary horse, Rakhsh. As Rostam is sleeping, the dragon approaches; Rakhsh attempts to wake Rostam, but fails to alert him to the danger until Rostam sees the dragon. Rakhsh bites the serpent, while Rostam decapitates it. This is the third trial of Rostam's Seven Labors.[71][72][73]

Rostam is also credited with the slaughter of other dragons in the Shahnameh and in other Iranian oral traditions, notably in the myth of Babr-e-Bayan. In this tale, Rostam is still an adolescent and kills a dragon in the "Orient" (either India or China depending on the source) by forcing it to swallow either ox hides filled with quicklime and stones or poisoned blades. The dragon swallows these foreign objects and its stomach bursts, after which Rostam flays the dragon and fashions a coat from its hide called the babr-e bayān. In some variants of the story, Rostam then remains unconscious for two days and nights, but is guarded by his steed Rakhsh. On reviving, he washes himself in a spring. In the Mandean tradition of the story, Rostam hides in a box, is swallowed by the dragon and kills it from inside its belly. The king of China then gives Rostam his daughter in marriage as a reward.[74][75]

Europe
Proto-Indo-European
Further information: Chaoskampf, Sea serpent, Proto-Indo-European religion § Dragon or Serpent, and Serpents in the Bible
The story of a hero slaying a giant serpent occurs in nearly every Indo-European mythology.[76][77] In most stories, the hero is some kind of thunder-god.[77] In nearly every iteration of the story, the serpent is either multi-headed or "multiple" in some other way.[76] Furthermore, in nearly every story, the serpent is always somehow associated with water.[77] Bruce Lincoln has proposed that a Proto-Indo-European dragon-slaying myth can be reconstructed as follows:[78][79] First, the sky gods give cattle to a man named *Tritos ("the third"), who is so named because he is the third man on earth,[78][79] but a three-headed serpent named *Ngwhi steals them.[78][79] *Tritos pursues the serpent and is accompanied by *Hanér, whose name means "man".[78][79] Together, the two heroes slay the serpent and rescue the cattle.[78][79]

Ancient Greece and Rome

Greek red-figure vase painting depicting Heracles slaying the Lernaean Hydra, c. 375–340 BC
Main article: Dragons in Greek mythology
The ancient Greek word usually translated as "dragon" (δράκων drákōn, genitive δράκοντοϛ drákontos) could also mean "snake",[80][6] but it usually refers to a kind of giant serpent that either possesses supernatural characteristics or is otherwise controlled by some supernatural power.[81] The first mention of a "dragon" in ancient Greek literature occurs in the Iliad, in which Agamemnon is described as having a blue dragon motif on his sword belt and an emblem of a three-headed dragon on his breast plate.[82] In lines 820–880 of the Theogony, a Greek poem written in the seventh century BC by the Boeotian poet Hesiod, the Greek god Zeus battles the monster Typhon, who has one hundred serpent heads that breathe fire and speak all kinds of frightening animal noises.[30] Zeus scorches all of Typhon's heads with his lightning bolts and then hurls Typhon into Tartarus.[83] In the Homeric Hymn to Apollo, the god Apollo uses his poisoned arrows to slay the serpent Python, who has been causing death and pestilence in the area around Delphi.[84][83] Apollo then sets up his shrine there.[83]

The Roman poet Virgil in his poem Culex, lines 163–201 [1], describing a shepherd having a fight with a big constricting snake, calls it "serpens" and also "draco", showing that in his time the two words were probably interchangeable.


Attic red-figure kylix painting from c. 480–470 BC showing Athena observing as the Colchian dragon disgorges the hero Jason[85][86]
Hesiod also mentions that the hero Heracles slew the Lernaean Hydra, a multiple-headed serpent which dwelt in the swamps of Lerna.[87] The name "Hydra" means "water snake" in Greek.[83][88] According to the Bibliotheka of Pseudo-Apollodorus, the slaying of the Hydra was the second of the Twelve Labors of Heracles.[89][83] Accounts disagree on which weapon Heracles used to slay the Hydra,[83] but, by the end of the sixth century BC, it was agreed that the clubbed or severed heads needed to be cauterized to prevent them from growing back.[90][83] Heracles was aided in this task by his nephew Iolaus.[90] During the battle, a giant crab crawled out of the marsh and pinched Heracles's foot,[89] but he crushed it under his heel.[91] Hera placed the crab in the sky as the constellation Cancer.[91] One of the Hydra's heads was immortal, so Heracles buried it under a heavy rock after cutting it off.[83][91] For his Eleventh Labor, Heracles must procure a golden apple from the tree in the Garden of the Hesperides, which is guarded by an enormous serpent that never sleeps,[92] which Pseudo-Apollodorus calls "Ladon".[93] In earlier depictions, Ladon is often shown with many heads.[94] In Pseudo-Apollodorus's account, Ladon is immortal,[94] but Sophocles and Euripides both describe Heracles as killing him, although neither of them specifies how.[94] The mythographer Herodorus is the first to state that Heracles slew him using his famous club.[94] Apollonius of Rhodes, in his epic poem the Argonautica, describes Ladon as having been shot full of poisoned arrows dipped in the blood of the Hydra.[95]

In Pindar's Fourth Pythian Ode, Aeëtes of Colchis tells the hero Jason that the Golden Fleece he is seeking is in a copse guarded by a dragon, "which surpassed in breadth and length a fifty-oared ship".[96] Jason slays the dragon and makes off with the Golden Fleece together with his co-conspirator, Aeëtes's daughter, Medea.[97] The earliest artistic representation of this story is an Attic red-figure kylix dated to c. 480–470 BC,[98] showing a bedraggled Jason being disgorged from the dragon's open mouth as the Golden Fleece hangs in a tree behind him and Athena, the goddess of wisdom, stands watching.[98][86] A fragment from Pherecydes of Athens states that Jason killed the dragon,[97] but fragments from the Naupactica and from Herodorus state that he merely stole the Fleece and escaped.[97] In Euripides's Medea, Medea boasts that she killed the Colchian dragon herself.[97] In the most famous retelling of the story from Apollonius of Rhodes's Argonautica, Medea drugs the dragon to sleep, allowing Jason to steal the Fleece.[99] Greek vase paintings show her feeding the dragon the sleeping drug in a liquid form from a phialē, or shallow cup.[100]


Paestan red-figure kylix-krater (c. 350–340 BC) showing Cadmus fighting the dragon of Ares[101]
In the founding myth of Thebes, Cadmus, a Phoenician prince, was instructed by Apollo to follow a heifer and found a city wherever it laid down.[102] Cadmus and his men followed the heifer and, when it laid down, Cadmus ordered his men to find a spring so he could sacrifice the heifer to Athena.[102] His men found a spring, but it was guarded by a dragon, which had been placed there by the god Ares, and the dragon killed them.[102] Cadmus killed the dragon in revenge,[102][103] either by smashing its head with a rock or using his sword.[102] Following the advice of Athena, Cadmus tore out the dragon's teeth and planted them in the earth.[102][103] An army of giant warriors (known as spartoi, which means "sown men") grew from the teeth like plants.[102][103] Cadmus hurled stones into their midst, causing them to kill each other until only five were left.[102] To make restitution for having killed Ares's dragon, Cadmus was forced to serve Ares as a slave for eight years.[102] At the end of this period, Cadmus married Harmonia, the daughter of Ares and Aphrodite.[102] Cadmus and Harmonia moved to Illyria, where they ruled as king and queen, before eventually being transformed into dragons themselves.[104]

In the fifth century BC, the Greek historian Herodotus reported in Book IV of his Histories that western Libya was inhabited by monstrous serpents[105] and, in Book III, he states that Arabia was home to many small, winged serpents,[106][107] which came in a variety of colors and enjoyed the trees that produced frankincense.[106][105] Herodotus remarks that the serpent's wings were like those of bats[108] and that, unlike vipers, which are found in every land, winged serpents are only found in Arabia.[108] The second-century BC Greek astronomer Hipparchus (c. 190 BC – c. 120 BC) listed the constellation Draco ("the dragon") as one of forty-six constellations.[109] Hipparchus described the constellation as containing fifteen stars,[110] but the later astronomer Ptolemy (c. 100 – c. 170 AD) increased this number to thirty-one in his Almagest.[110]


Ancient Greek mosaic from Caulonia, Italy, depicting a cetus or sea-dragon
In the New Testament, Revelation 12:3, written by John of Patmos, describes a vision of a Great Red Dragon with seven heads, ten horns, seven crowns, and a massive tail,[111] an image which is clearly inspired by the vision of the four beasts from the sea in the Book of Daniel[112] and the Leviathan described in various Old Testament passages.[113] The Great Red Dragon knocks "a third of the sun ... a third of the moon, and a third of the stars" out the sky[114] and pursues the Woman of the Apocalypse.[114] Revelation 12:7–9 declares: "And war broke out in Heaven. Michael and his angels fought against Dragon. Dragon and his angels fought back, but they were defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in Heaven. Dragon the Great was thrown down, that ancient serpent who is called Devil and Satan, the one deceiving the whole inhabited World – he was thrown down to earth and his angels were thrown down with him."[115] Then a voice booms down from Heaven heralding the defeat of "the Accuser" (ho Kantegor).[116]

In 217 AD, Flavius Philostratus discussed dragons (δράκων, drákōn) in India in The Life of Apollonius of Tyana (II,17 and III,6–8). The Loeb Classical Library translation (by F.C. Conybeare) mentions (III,7) that "In most respects the tusks resemble the largest swine's, but they are slighter in build and twisted, and have a point as unabraded as sharks' teeth." According to a collection of books by Claudius Aelianus called On Animals, Ethiopia was inhabited by a species of dragon that hunted elephants and could grow to a length of 180 feet (55 m) with a lifespan rivaling that of the most enduring of animals.[117]

Post-classical Germanic mythology
Main articles: Sea serpent and Lindworm

Drawing of the Ramsund carving from c. 1030, illustrating the Völsunga saga on a rock in Sweden. At (5), Sigurd plunges his sword into Fafnir's underside.
In the Old Norse poem Grímnismál in the Poetic Edda, the dragon Níðhöggr is described as gnawing on the roots of Yggdrasil, the world tree.[118] In Norse mythology, Jörmungandr is a giant serpent that encircles the entire realm of Miðgarð in the sea around it.[119] According to the Gylfaginning from the Prose Edda, written by the thirteenth-century Icelandic mythographer Snorri Sturluson, Thor, the Norse god of thunder, once went out on a boat with the giant Hymnir to the outer sea and fished for Jörmungandr using an ox-head as bait.[119] Thor caught the serpent and, after pulling its head out of the water, smashed it with his hammer Mjölnir.[119] Snorri states that the blow was not fatal: "and men say that he struck its head off on the sea bed. But I think the truth to tell you is that the Miðgarð Serpent still lives and lies in the surrounding sea."[119]

Towards the end of the Old English epic poem Beowulf, a slave steals a cup from the hoard of a sleeping dragon,[120] causing the dragon to wake up and go on a rampage of destruction across the countryside.[121] The eponymous hero of the poem insists on confronting the dragon alone, even though he is of advanced age,[122][123] but Wiglaf, the youngest of the twelve warriors Beowulf has brought with him, insists on accompanying his king into the battle.[124] Beowulf's sword shatters during the fight and he is mortally wounded,[125][126] but Wiglaf comes to his rescue and helps him slay the dragon.[126] Beowulf dies and tells Wiglaf that the dragon's treasure must be buried rather than shared with the cowardly warriors who did not come to the aid of their king.[127]

In the Old Norse Völsunga saga, the hero Sigurd catches the dragon Fafnir by digging a pit between the cave where he lives and the spring where he drinks his water[128] and kills him by stabbing him in the underside.[128] At the advice of Odin, Sigurd drains Fafnir's blood and drinks it, which gives him the ability to understand the language of the birds,[129] who he hears talking about how his mentor Regin is plotting to betray him so that he can keep all of Fafnir's treasure for himself.[129][130] The motif of a hero trying to sneak past a sleeping dragon and steal some of its treasure is common throughout many Old Norse sagas.[131] The fourteenth-century Flóres saga konungs ok sona hans describes a hero who is actively concerned not to wake a sleeping dragon while sneaking past it.[131] In the Yngvars saga víðförla, the protagonist attempts to steal treasure from several sleeping dragons, but accidentally wakes them up.[131]

Post-classical Western Europe

Fifteenth-century manuscript illustration of the battle of the Red and White Dragons from Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britain

Great seal of Owain Glyndŵr (c. 1359 – c. 1415), prince of Wales: with dragon crest on his helmet
Main articles: European dragon, Welsh Dragon, Wyvern, Saint George and the Dragon, Margaret the Virgin, and Dacian Draco
The modern, western image of a dragon developed in western Europe during the Middle Ages through the combination of the snakelike dragons of classical Graeco-Roman literature, references to Near Eastern European dragons preserved in the Bible, and western European folk traditions.[132] The period between the eleventh and thirteenth centuries represents the height of European interest in dragons as living creatures.[133] The twelfth-century Welsh monk Geoffrey of Monmouth recounts a famous legend in his Historia Regum Britanniae in which the child prophet Merlin witnesses the Romano-Celtic warlord Vortigern attempt to build a tower on Mount Snowdon to keep safe from the Anglo-Saxons,[134] but the tower keeps being swallowed into the ground.[134] Merlin informs Vortigern that, underneath the foundation he has built, is a pool with two dragons sleeping in it.[134] Vortigern orders for the pool to be drained, exposing a red dragon and a white dragon, who immediately begin fighting.[134] Merlin delivers a prophecy that the white dragon will triumph over the red, symbolizing England's conquest of Wales,[134] but declares that the red dragon will eventually return and defeat the white one.[135] This story remained popular throughout the fifteenth century.[135]


MS Harley 3244, a medieval manuscript dated to around 1260 AD, contains the oldest recognizable image of a fully modern, western dragon.[8]
The oldest recognizable image of a fully modern, western dragon appears in a hand-painted illustration from the medieval manuscript MS Harley 3244, which was produced in around 1260 AD.[8] The dragon in the illustration has two sets of wings and its tail is longer than most modern depictions of dragons,[8] but it clearly displays many of the same distinctive features.[8] Dragons are generally depicted as living in rivers or having an underground lair or cave.[136] They are envisioned as greedy and gluttonous, with voracious appetites.[132] They are often identified with Satan, due to the references to Satan as a "dragon" in the Book of Revelation.[132] The thirteenth-century Golden Legend, written in Latin, records the story of Saint Margaret of Antioch,[68] a virgin martyr who, after being tortured for her faith in the Diocletianic Persecution and thrown back into her cell, is said to have been confronted by a monstrous dragon,[68] but she made the sign of the cross and the dragon vanished.[68] In some versions of the story, she is actually swallowed by the dragon alive and, after making the sign of the cross in the dragon's stomach, emerges unharmed.[68]


Manuscript illustration from Verona of Saint George slaying the dragon, dating to c. 1270
The legend of Saint George and the Dragon may be referenced as early as the sixth century AD,[137][138] but the earliest artistic representations of it come from the eleventh century[137] and the first full account of it comes from an eleventh-century Georgian text.[139] The most famous version of the story from the Golden Legend holds that a dragon kept pillaging the sheep of the town of Silene in Libya.[137] After it ate a young shepherd, the people were forced to placate it by leaving two sheep as sacrificial offerings every morning beside the lake where the dragon lived.[137] Eventually, the dragon ate all of the sheep[140] and the people were forced to start offering it their own children.[140] One day, the king's own daughter came up in the lottery and, despite the king's pleas for her life, she was dressed as a bride and chained to a rock beside the lake to be eaten.[140] Then, Saint George arrived and saw the princess.[140] When the dragon arrived to eat her, he stabbed it with his lance and subdued it by making the sign of the cross and tying the princess's girdle around its neck.[140] Saint George and the princess led the now-docile dragon into the town and George promised to kill it if the townspeople would convert to Christianity.[141] All the townspeople converted and Saint George killed the dragon with his sword.[141] In some versions, Saint George marries the princess,[141] but, in others, he continues wandering.[141]

Gargoyles are carved stone figures sometimes resembling dragons that originally served as waterspouts on buildings.[142][143] Precursors to the medieval gargoyle can be found on ancient Greek and Egyptian temples,[142][144][145] but, over the course of the Middle Ages, many fantastic stories were invented to explain them.[146] One medieval French legend holds that, in ancient times, a fearsome dragon known as La Gargouille had been causing floods and sinking ships on the river Seine,[147] so the people of the town of Rouen would offer the dragon a human sacrifice once each year to appease its hunger.[147] Then, in around 600 AD, a priest named Romanus promised that, if the people would build a church, he would rid them of the dragon.[147] Romanus slew the dragon and its severed head was mounted on the walls of the city as the first gargoyle.[147][148]

Dragons are prominent in medieval heraldry.[149] Uther Pendragon was famously said to have had two gold dragons crowned with red standing back-to-back on his royal coat of arms.[150] Originally, heraldic dragons could have any number of legs,[149] but, by the late Middle Ages, due to the widespread proliferation of bestiaries, heraldry began to distinguish between a "dragon" (which could only have exactly four legs) and a "wyvern" (which could only have exactly two).[149] In myths, wyverns are associated with viciousness, envy, and pestilence,[149] but, in heraldry, they are used as symbols for overthrowing the tyranny of Satan and his demonic forces.[149] Late medieval heraldry also distinguished a draconic creature known as a "cockatrice".[149] A cockatrice is supposedly born when a serpent hatches an egg that has been laid on a dunghill by a rooster[149] and it is so venomous that its breath and its gaze are both lethal to any living creature, except for a weasel, which is the cockatrice's mortal enemy.[149] A basilisk is a serpent with the head of a dragon at the end of its tail that is born when a toad hatches an egg that has been laid in a midden by a nine-year-old cockatrice.[149] Like the cockatrice, its glare is said to be deadly.[149]

Post-classical Eastern Europe

Zmey Gorynych, a three-headed dragon from Russian folklore.

Illustration of the Wawel Dragon from Sebastian Münster's Cosmographie Universalis (1544).
Main articles: Slavic dragon and Kulshedra
In Albanian mythology and folklore, stihi, ljubi, bolla, bollar, errshaja and kulshedra are mythological figures described as serpentine dragons. It is believed that bolla, a water and chthonic demonic serpent, undergoes metamorphosis passing through four distinct phases if it lives many years without being seen by a human. The bollar and errshaja are the intermediate stages, while the kulshedra is the ultimate phase, described as a huge multi-headed fire-spitting female serpent which causes drought, storms, flooding, earthquakes and other natural disasters against mankind. She is usually fought and defeated by a drangue, a semi-human winged divine hero and protector of humans. Heavy thunderstorms are thought to be the result of their battles.[151][152]

In Slavic mythology, the words "zmey", "zmiy" or "zmaj" are used to describe dragons. These words are masculine forms of the Slavic word for "snake", which are normally feminine (like Russian zmeya). In Romania, there is a similar figure, derived from the Slavic dragon and named zmeu. Exclusively in Polish and Belarusian folklore, as well as in the other Slavic folklores, a dragon is also called (variously) смок, цмок, or smok. In South Slavic folklores, the same thing is also called lamya (ламя, ламjа, lamja). Although quite similar to other European dragons, Slavic dragons have their peculiarities.

In Russian and Ukrainian folklore, Zmey Gorynych is a dragon with three heads, each one bearing twin goatlike horns.[153] He is said to have breathed fire and smelled of sulfur.[153] It was believed that eclipses were caused by Gorynych temporarily swallowing the sun.[154] According to one legend, Gorynych's uncle was the evil sorcerer Nemal Chelovek, who abducted the daughter of the tsar and imprisoned her in his castle in the Ural Mountains.[154] Many knights tried to free her, but all of them were killed by Gorynych's fire.[154] Then a palace guard in Moscow named Ivan Tsarevich overheard two crows talking about the princess.[155] He went to the tsar, who gave him a magic sword, and snuck into the castle.[156] When Chelovek attacked Ivan in the form of a giant, the sword flew from Ivan's hand unbidden and killed him.[156] Then the sword cut off all three of Gorynych's heads at once.[156] Ivan brought the princess back to the tsar, who declared Ivan a nobleman and allowed him to marry the princess.[156]

A popular Polish folk tale is the legend of the Wawel Dragon,[157][158][159] which is first recorded in the Chronica Polonorum of Wincenty Kadłubek, written between 1190 and 1208.[158][159] According to Kadłubek, the dragon appeared during the reign of King Krakus[158] and demanded to be fed a fixed number of cattle every week.[158] If the villagers failed to provide enough cattle, the dragon would eat the same number of villagers as the number of cattle they had failed to provide.[158] Krakus ordered his sons to slay the dragon.[158] Since they could not slay it by hand,[158] they tricked the dragon into eating calfskins filled with burning sulfur.[158] Once the dragon was dead, the younger brother attacked and murdered his older brother and returned home to claim all the glory for himself,[158] telling his father that his brother had died fighting the dragon.[158] The younger brother became king after his father died, but his secret was eventually revealed and he was banished.[158] In the fifteenth century, Jan Długosz rewrote the story so that King Krakus himself was the one who slew the dragon.[157][158][159] Another version of the story told by Marcin Bielski instead has the clever shoemaker Skubę come up with the idea for slaying the dragon.[158][160] Bielski's version is now the most popular.[158]

Modern depictions
See also: List of dragons in fiction

Modern fan illustration by David Demaret of the dragon Smaug from J. R. R. Tolkien's 1937 high fantasy novel The Hobbit
Dragons and dragon motifs are featured in many works of modern literature, particularly within the fantasy genre.[161][162] As early as the eighteenth century, critical thinkers such as Denis Diderot were already asserting that too much literature had been published on dragons: "There are already in books all too many fabulous stories of dragons".[163] In Lewis Carroll's classic children's novel Through the Looking-Glass (1872), one of the inset poems describes the Jabberwock, a kind of dragon.[7] Carroll's illustrator John Tenniel, a famous political cartoonist, humorously showed the Jabberwock with the waistcoat, buck teeth, and myopic eyes of a Victorian university lecturer, such as Carroll himself.[7] In works of comedic children's fantasy, dragons often fulfill the role of a magic fairy tale helper.[164] In such works, rather than being frightening as they are traditionally portrayed, dragons are instead represented as harmless, benevolent, and inferior to humans.[164] They are sometimes shown living in contact with humans, or in isolated communities of only dragons.[164] Though popular in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, "such comic and idyllic stories" began to grow increasingly rare after the 1960s, due to demand for more serious children's literature.[164]

One of the most iconic modern dragons is Smaug from J. R. R. Tolkien's classic novel The Hobbit.[161] Dragons also appear in the best-selling Harry Potter series of children's novels by J. K. Rowling.[7] Other prominent works depicting dragons include Anne McCaffrey's Dragonriders of Pern, Ursula K. Le Guin's Earthsea Cycle, George R. R. Martin's series A Song of Ice and Fire, and Christopher Paolini's Inheritance Cycle. Sandra Martina Schwab writes, "With a few exceptions, including McCaffrey's Pern novels and the 2002 film Reign of Fire, dragons seem to fit more into the medievalized setting of fantasy literature than into the more technological world of science fiction. Indeed, they have been called the emblem of fantasy. The hero's fight against the dragon emphasizes and celebrates his masculinity, whereas revisionist fantasies of dragons and dragon-slaying often undermine traditional gender roles. In children's literature the friendly dragon becomes a powerful ally in battling the child's fears."[165] The popular role-playing game system Dungeons & Dragons (D&D) makes heavy use of dragons.[8]

After recent discoveries in palaeontology, fictional dragons are sometimes represented with no front legs, but (when on the ground) walking on their back feet and the wrists of their wings, like pterosaurs did: for example see (in Game of Thrones) and (Smaug, as in the movie).


John Tenniel's illustration of the Jabberwock for Lewis Carroll's Through the Looking-Glass, showing the dragon as a myopic professor[7]

 

Model of the Hungarian Horntail used for the 2005 film Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire

 

Representation of a dragon as it appears in the role-playing game Dungeons & Dragons

See also
Draig.svg Mythology portal
Balaur
Bat (heraldry)
Behemoth
Dinosaur
Dragonology
Feilong (mythology)
Guivre
Ichneumon (medieval zoology)
Mokele-mbembe
Partridge Creek monster
Snallygaster
The Last Dragon, fictional 2004 documentary
List of dragons in literature
List of dragons in mythology and folklore
List of dragons in popular culture
Notes
References
 Stromberg, Joseph (January 23, 2012). "Where Did Dragons Come From?". Smithsonian.
 "Archeologists Find Crocodile is Prototype of Dragon". People's Daily. April 29, 2000.
 Beowulf; a heroic poem of the 8th century, with tr., note and appendix by T. Arnold, 1876, p. 196.
 Ogden 2013, p. 4.
 Δράκων, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, at Perseus project
 Ogden 2013, pp. 2–4.
 Malone 2012, p. 96.
 Malone 2012, p. 98.
 Jones 2000, p. 32-40.
 Jones 2000, p. 63.
 Jones 2000, pp. 166–168.
 Jones 2000, p. 32.
 Jones 2000, p. 108.
 Mayor 2000, pp. xiii–xxii.
 Mayor 2000, p. xxii.
 Mayor 2000, p. xix.
 Mayor 2005, p. 149.
 Blust, Robert. “The Origin of Dragons.” Anthropos, vol. 95, no. 2, 2000, pp. 519–536. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/40465957. Accessed 6 June 2020.
 Ogden 2013, p. 11.
 Niles 2013, p. 35.
 Niles 2013, p. 36.
 Niles 2013, pp. 35–36.
 Niles 2013, pp. 36–37.
 Niles 2013, p. 37.
 Hornung 2001, p. 13.
 Hornung 2001, p. 44.
 West 2007, pp. 255–257.
 West 2007, pp. 256–257.
 Ogden 2013, p. 16.
 West 2007, p. 257.
 West 2007, p. 260.
 Waddell, Laurence (1895). The Buddhism of Tibet Or Lamaism. p. 199. ISBN 9781602061378.
 People's Daily On-line (2001), "Chinese Dragon Originates From Primitive Agriculture: Archaeologist". Retrieved June 5, 2011.
 Guan, Caihua. (2001) English-Cantonese Dictionary: Cantonese in Yale Romanization. ISBN 9622019706.
 Welch, Patricia Bjaaland. Chinese Art: A Guide to Motifs and Visual Imagery, Tuttle Publishing, 2008, p. 121
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, p. 105.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, p. 106.
 Volker 1975, p. 64.
 Volker 1975, p. 62.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, pp. 103–104.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, p. 104.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, pp. 104–105.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, pp. 106–107.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, p. 107.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, pp. 107–108.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, p. 108.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, pp. 108–109.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, p. 109.
 Yang, An & Turner 2005, pp. 109–110.
 Hayward, Philip (2018). Scaled for Success: The Internationalisation of the Mermaid. Indiana University Press. ISBN 978-0861967322.
 Samguk yusa
 The book of the genealogy of Taejo of Goryeo - Pyeonnyeon-Tong-Long (편년통록)
 우리 옷 만들기. Sungshin Women's University Press. 2004. pp. 25–26. ISBN 978-8986092639.
 Seo, Yeong Dae (2002). 용, 그 신화와 문화. Min sokwon. p. 85. ISBN 978-8956380223.
 Gould, Charles. 1896. Mythical Monsters". W. H. Allen & Co.
 Volker 1975, p. 63.
 Black & Green 1992, p. 166.
 Black & Green 1992, p. 71.
 Black & Green 1992, p. 121.
 Black & Green 1992, p. 177.
 Fontenrose 1980, p. 153.
 Ballentine 2015, p. 130.
 Day 2002, p. 103.
 Ogden 2013, p. 12.
 Ballentine 2015, pp. 129–130.
 Ogden 2013, p. 14.
 Day 2002, p. 102.
 Morgan 2009.
 Savi, Julio (2008). Towards the Summit of Reality. Oxford, UK: George Ronald. ISBN 978-0-85398-522-8. OL 23179261M.
 Schimmel, Annemarie (1975). Mystical dimensions of Islam. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press. ISBN 0807812234. LCCN 73016112. OL 5422370M.
 "Rakhsh helping Rostam defeat the dragon". British Library.
 "Rustam killing a dragon". British Museum.
 "Shahname Synopsis". British Library.
 "Azdaha". Encyclopedia Iranica.
 "Babr-e-Bayan". Encyclopedia Iranica.
 Mallory & Adams 2006, pp. 436–437.
 West 2007, pp. 255–263.
 Mallory & Adams 2006, p. 437.
 Anthony 2007, pp. 134–135.
 Chad Hartsock, Sight and Blindness in Luke-Acts: The Use of Physical Features in Characterization, Brill, Leiden-Boston, 2008, pp. 193–4.
 Ogden 2013, pp. 2–3.
 Drury, Nevill, The Dictionary of the Esoteric, Motilal Banarsidass Publ., 2003 ISBN 81-208-1989-6, p.79.
 West 2007, p. 258.
 Ogden 2013, pp. 47–48.
 Ogden 2013, p. 59.
 Deacy 2008, p. 62.
 Ogden 2013, pp. 28–29.
 Ogden 2013, p. 28.
 Ogden 2013, pp. 26–27.
 Ogden 2013, p. 26.
 Ogden 2013, p. 27.
 Ogden 2013, p. 33.
 Ogden 2013, pp. 33–34.
 Ogden 2013, p. 37.
 Ogden 2013, p. 38.
 Ogden 2013, pp. 59–60.
 Ogden 2013, p. 60.
 Ogden 2013, pp. 58–59.
 Ogden 2013, pp. 60–61.
 Ogden 2013, p. 61.
 Ogden 2013, p. 49.
 Ogden 2013, p. 48.
 Mayor 2000, p. 266.
 Ogden 2013, pp. 48–49.
 Charlesworth 2010, p. 169.
 Jones 2000, p. 168.
 Charlesworth 2010, pp. 169–170.
 Charlesworth 2010, p. 170.
 Grasshoff 1990, pp. 35–36.
 Grasshoff 1990, p. 36.
 Kelly 2006, pp. 149–150.
 Kelly 2006, p. 150.
 Kelly 2006, pp. 150–151.
 Kelly 2006, p. 151.
 Kelly 2006, pp. 151–152.
 Kelly 2006, p. 152.
 "ETHIOPIAN DRAGON (Drakon Aithiopikos) – Giant Serpent of Greek & Roman Legend". Retrieved 30 December 2016.
 MacCulloch 1998, p. 156.
 West 2007, p. 159.
 Rauer 2000, pp. 81–81.
 Rauer 2000, pp. 74–77.
 Rauer 2000, pp. 77–81.
 Niles 2013, p. 122.
 Niles 2013, pp. 122–123.
 Rauer 2000, pp. 80–82.
 Niles 2013, p. 123.
 Niles 2013, pp. 123–124.
 Haimerl 2013, pp. 36–38.
 Haimerl 2013, p. 41.
 Niles 2013, p. 119.
 Rauer 2000, p. 85.
 Fee 2011, p. 7.
 Jones 2000, p. 101.
 Hughes 2005, p. 106.
 Hughes 2005, pp. 106–107.
 Ørmen, Torfinn (2005). Drager, mellom myte og virkelighet (Dragons: between myth and reality) (in Norwegian) (1st ed.). Oslo: Humanist forlag A/S. p. 252. ISBN 978-82-90425-76-5.
 Niles 2013, p. 53.
 Thurston 1909, pp. 453–455.
 Walter 2003, p. 141.
 Niles 2013, p. 54.
 Niles 2013, p. 55.
 Sherman 2015, p. 183.
 Cipa 2008, pp. 1–3.
 Dinsmoor 1973, p. 96.
 Swaddling 1989, pp. 17–18.
 Sherman 2015, pp. 183–184.
 Sherman 2015, p. 184.
 Cipa 2008, pp. 1–30.
 Friar & Ferguson 1993, p. 168.
 Friar & Ferguson 1993, p. 28.
 Doja (2005), p. 449–462.
 Elsie 2001, pp. 46-47, 74-76, 153-156.
 Niles 2013, p. 146.
 Niles 2013, p. 147.
 Niles 2013, pp. 147–148.
 Niles 2013, p. 148.
 Sikorski 1997, p. 235.
 Dębicka.
 Kitowska-Łysiak & Wolicka 1999, p. 231.
 Rożek 1988, p. 27.
 Malone 2012, pp. 96–98.
 Williamson 2015, p. 28.
 Diderot, Denis. "Dragons". The Encyclopedia of Diderot & d'Alembert. Retrieved 1 April 2015.
 Nikolajeva 2012, p. 56.
 Schwab, Sandra Martina (2005). "Dragons". In Gary Westfahl (ed.). The Greenwood Encyclopedia of Science Fiction and Fantasy: Themes, Works, and Wonders. Vol. 1. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press. p. 216. ISBN 0-313-32951-6.
Bibliography
Anthony, David W. (2007), The Horse, the Wheel, and Language: How Bronze-Age Riders from the Eurasian Steppes Shaped the Modern World, Princeton, England: Princeton University Press, ISBN 978-0691148182
Bates, Roy. Chinese Dragons. Oxford University Press, 2002. ISBN 0-195-92856-3.
Berman, Ruth (1984). "Dragons for Tolkien and Lewis". Mythlore. East Lansing, Michigan: Mythopoeic Society. 11: 53–58.
Ballentine, Debra Scoggins (2015), The Conflict Myth and the Biblical Tradition, Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-937025-2
Berman, Ruth (1984). "Victorian Dragons". Children's Literature in Education. 15: 220–233. doi:10.1007/BF01137186.
Black, Jeremy; Green, Anthony (1992), Gods, Demons and Symbols of Ancient Mesopotamia: An Illustrated Dictionary, The British Museum Press, ISBN 0-7141-1705-6
Blount, Margaret Joan (1975). "Dragons". Animal Land: the Creatures of Children's Fiction. New York: William Morrow. pp. 116–130. ISBN 0-688-00272-2.
Charlesworth, James H. (2010), The Good and Evil Serpent: How a Universal Symbol Became Christianized, New Haven, Connecticut: Yale University Press, ISBN 978-0-300-14082-8
Cipa, Shawn (2008), Carving Gargoyles, Grotesques, and Other Creatures of Myth: History, Lore, and 12 Artistic Patterns, Petersburg, Pennsylvania: Fox Chapel Publishing Inc., ISBN 978-1-56523-329-4
Day, John (2002), Yahweh and the Gods and Goddesses of Canaan, Continuum, ISBN 9780567537836
Deacy, Susan (2008), Athena, London and New York: Routledge, ISBN 978-0-415-30066-7
Dębicka, Maria, "Dragon's Den", Zamek Królewski na Wawelu, archived from the original on 2018-11-20, retrieved 2018-03-31
Dinsmoor, William Bell (1973), The Architecture of Ancient Greece: An Account of its Historic Development, New York City, New York: Biblo and Tannen, ISBN 978-0-8196-0283-1
Doja, Albert (2005), "Mythology and Destiny" (PDF), Anthropos, 100 (2). JSTOR 40466549
Elsie, Robert (2001). A Dictionary of Albanian Religion, Mythology and Folk Culture. London: Hurst & Company. ISBN 1-85065-570-7.
Fee, Christopher R. (2011), Chance, Jane (ed.), Mythology in the Middle Ages: Heroic Tales of Monsters, Magic, and Might, Praeger Series on the Middle Ages, Santa Barbara, California, Denver, Colorado, and Oxford, England, ISBN 978-0-313-02725-3
Fontenrose, Joseph Eddy (1980) [1959], Python: A Study of Delphic Myth and Its Origins, Berkeley, California, Los Angeles, California, and London, England: The University of California Press, ISBN 0-520-04106-2
Friar, Stephen; Ferguson, John (1993), Basic Heraldry, New York City, New York and London, England: W. W. Norton & Company, ISBN 0-393-03463-1
Garrett, Valery M. Chinese Dragon Robes. Oxford University Press, 1999. ISBN 0-195-90499-0.
Giammanco Frongia, Rosanna M.; Giorgi, Rosa; Zuffi, Stefano (2005). Angels and Demons in Art. Los Angeles: J. Paul Getty Museum. ISBN 0-89236-830-6.
Grasshoff, Gerd (1990), Toomer, Gerald (ed.), The History of Ptolemy's Star Catalogue, Studies in the History of Mathematics and Physical Sciences, 14, New York City, New York, Berlin, Germany, Heidelberg, Germany, London, England, Paris, France, Tokyo, Japan, and Hong Kong, China: Springer-Verlag, ISBN 978-1-4612-8788-9
Haimerl, Edgar (2013), "Sigurðr, a Medieval Hero", in Acker, Paul; Larrington, Carolyne (eds.), Revisiting the Poetic Edda: Essays on Old Norse Heroic Legend, New York City, New York and London, England: Routledge, ISBN 978-0-203-09860-8
Hanlon, Tina (2003). "The Taming of Dragons in Twentieth Century Picture Books". Journal of the Fantastic in the Arts. 14: 7–27.
Hornung, Erik (2001), The Secret Lore of Egypt: Its Impact on the West, Ithaca, New York and London, England: Cornell University Press, ISBN 0-8014-3847-0
Hughes, Jonathan (2005), "Politics and the Occult in the Court of Edward IV", in Gosman, Martin; MacDonald, Alasdair; Vanderjagt, Arjo (eds.), Princes and Princely Culture: 1450-1650, Leiden, The Netherlands and Boston, Massachusetts: Brill, ISBN 90-04-13690-8
Ingersoll, Ernest; Henry Fairfield Osborn (2013). The Illustrated Book of Dragons and Dragon Lore. Chiang Mai, Thailand: Cognoscenti Books. ISBN 9781304112422.
Johnsgard, Paul Austin; Johnsgard, Karin (1982). Dragons and unicorns : a natural history. New York: St. Martin's Press. ISBN 0-312-21895-8.
Jones, David E. (2000), An Instinct for Dragons, New York City, New York and London, England: Routledge, ISBN 0-415-92721-8
Kelly, Henry Ansgar (2006), Satan: A Biography, Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0521604024
Kitowska-Łysiak, Małgorzata; Wolicka, Elżbieta (1999), Miejsce rzeczywiste, miejsce wyobrażone: studia nad kategorią miejsca w przestrzeni kultury, Towarzystwo Naukowe Katolickiego Uniwersytetu Lubelskiego [Scientific Society of the Catholic University of Lublin], ISBN 9788387703745
Littleton, C. Scott (2002). Mythology: The Illustrated Anthology of World Myth and Storytelling. Thunder Bay Press (CA). ISBN 1-57145-827-1.
MacCulloch, J. A. (1998) [1948], The Celtic and Scandinavian Religions, Chicago, Illinois: Academy Chicago Publishers, ISBN 0-897-33-434-5
Mallory, J. P.; Adams, D.Q. (2006), The Oxford Introduction to Proto-Indo-European and the Proto-Indo-European World, Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-929668-2
Malone, Michael S. (2012), The Guardian of All Things: The Epic Story of Human Memory, New York City, New York: St. Martin's Press, ISBN 978-1-250-01492-4
Mayor, Andrienne (2000), The First Fossil Hunters: Dinosaurs, Mammoths, and Myth in Greek and Roman Times, Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, ISBN 0-691-05863-6
Mayor, Adrienne (2005), Fossil Legends of the First Americans, Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, ISBN 0-691-11345-9
Morgan, Giles (21 January 2009), St George: Knight, Martyr, Patron Saint and Dragonslayer, Edison, New Jersey: Chartwell Books, Inc., ISBN 978-0785822325
Manning-Sanders, Ruth (1977). A Book of Dragons. London: Methuen. ISBN 0-416-58110-2.
Nikolajeva, Maria (2012), "The development of children's fantasy", in James, Edward; Mendlesohn, Farah (eds.), The Cambridge Companion to Fantasy Literature, Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, pp. 50–61, ISBN 978-0-521-72873-7
Niles, Doug (2013), Dragons: The Myths, Legends, and Lore, Avon, Massachusetts: Adams Media, ISBN 978-1-4405-6216-7
Ogden, Daniel (2013), Drakon: Dragon Myth and Serpent Cult in the Ancient Greek and Roman Worlds, Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-955732-5
Osmond, Andrew (2002). "Dragons in Film". Cinefantastique. Vol. 34. pp. 58–59.
Rauer, Christine (2000), Beowulf and the Dragon: Parallels and Analogues, Cambridge, England: D. S. Brewer, ISBN 0-85991-592-1
Rożek, Michał (1988), Cracow: A Treasury of Polish Culture and Art, Kraków, Poland: Interpress Publishers, p. 27, ISBN 9788322322451
Schwab, Sandra Martina (2005). "Dragons". In Gary Westfahl (ed.). The Greenwood Encyclopedia of Science Fiction and Fantasy: Themes, Works, and Wonders. Vol. 1. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press. pp. 214–216. ISBN 0-313-32951-6.
Shuker, Karl (1995). Dragons: a Natural History. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-684-81443-9.
Sikorski, Czesław (1997), "Wood Pitch as Combat Chemical in the Light of the Jan Długosz's Annals and Some of the Old Polish Military Treatises", Proceedings of the First International Symposium on Wood Tar and Pitch: 235
Sherman, Josepha (2015) [2008], Storytelling: An Encyclopedia of Mythology and Folklore, New York City, New York and London, England: Routledge, ISBN 978-0-7656-8047-1
Swaddling, Judith (1989), The Ancient Olympic Games, London, England: British Museum Press, ISBN 0-292-77751-5
Thurston, Herbert (1909), "St. George", The Catholic Encyclopedia, New York City, New York: Robert Appleton Company, 6, pp. 453–455
Unerman, Sandra (2000). "Dragons in Fantasy". Vector (211): 14–16.
Visser, Marinus Willem de; The Dragon in China and Japan, Amsterdam, J. Müller 1913.
Volker, T. (1975) [1950], The Animal in Far Eastern Art: And Especially in the Art of the Japanese Netsuke with Reference to Chinese Origins, Traditions, Legends, and Art, Leiden, The Netherlands: Brill, ISBN 90-04-04295-4
Walter, Christopher (2003), The Warrior Saints in Byzantine Art and Tradition, Farnham, England: Ashgate Publishing, ISBN 9781840146943
West, Martin Litchfield (2007), Indo-European Poetry and Myth, Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-928075-9
Williamson, Jamie (2015), The Evolution of Modern Fantasy: From Antiquarianism to the Ballantine Adult Fantasy Series, New York City, New York and Basingstoke, England, doi:10.1057/9781137515797, ISBN 978-1-137-51579-7
Yang, Lihui; An, Deming; Turner, Jessica Anderson (2005), Handbook of Chinese Mythology, Handbooks of World Mythology, Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-533263-6
External links
 Media related to Dragons at Wikimedia Commons
 The dictionary definition of dragon at Wiktionary
 Quotations related to Dragons at Wikiquote
vte
Dragons
vte
Heraldry
vte
Fantasy fiction
Authority control Edit this at Wikidata	
GND: 4012864-7LCCN: sh85039287
Categories: DragonsHeraldic beasts
Navigation menu
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
ArticleTalk
ReadView sourceView historySearch
Search Wikipedia
Main page
Contents
Current events
Random article
About Wikipedia
Contact us
Donate
Contribute
Help
Community portal
Recent changes
Upload file
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Wikidata item
Cite this page

Languages
Afrikaans
العربية
Deutsch
Español
हिन्दी
Latina
Русский
اردو
中文
93 more
Edit links
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Wikiquote
Print/export
Download as PDF
Printable version
This page was last edited on 22 June 2020, at 12:32 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaDevelopersStatisticsCookie statementMobile viewWikimedia FoundationPowered by MediaWiki
